{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Consolas;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\fs24
\b WHO AFRO Humanitarian Dashboard\b0\line
\b Public Deployment Guide (Word-Compatible)\b0\line
Date: 2026-03-21\line
\line
\b 1. Objective\b0\line
This guide explains how to publish the dashboard online for public access and what files are required for publication.\line
\line
\b 2. Governance Approval (Required Before Public Release)\b0\line
1. Obtain WHO communication and branding approval for a public URL.\line
2. Confirm data caveat wording is accepted for public users.\line
3. Confirm ownership of operational monitoring and incident response.\line
4. Decide whether launch is pilot-public (neutral domain) or official WHO domain.\line
\line
\b 3. Technical Deployment Path (Recommended: Azure App Service)\b0\line
1. Create Azure App Service (Linux, Node.js 20 LTS).\line
2. Deploy the dashboard-app source code to the service.\line
3. Add environment variables from .env.example in App Service Configuration.\line
4. Start app with npm start.\line
5. Validate endpoint health and UI load at / and /api/dashboard-data.\line
6. Enable HTTPS and attach custom domain (if approved).\line
7. Run production smoke test and UAT checklist before launch.\line
\line
\b 4. Pre-Publish Checklist\b0\line
Run from the dashboard-app folder before each release candidate:\line
\f1 .\\publish-check.ps1\f0\line
\line
Expected result: all checks pass and exit code = 0.\line
\line
\b 5. Files Included In Publication\b0\line
The publication manifest is in publication/FILES_FOR_PUBLICATION.csv and the bundle can be generated automatically using publication/prepare-publication-bundle.ps1.\line
\line
\b 6. Forecast Sources: What Is Available Today\b0\line
Forecasting is already multi-source, but not every source provides a structured country forecast API.\line
\line
Currently available and integrated:\line
1. ICPAC forecast bulletins (weekly, monthly, seasonal): integrated and rendered in Forecast Studio.\line
2. FEWS Data Warehouse IPC API: integrated for covered countries; provides current and near-term IPC phase context.\line
3. Cyclone projection context: integrated from dedicated cyclone sites (Meteo-France La Reunion, Cyclocane, WMO SWIC) plus GDACS and ReliefWeb signal enrichment.\line
\line
Not fully available as standardized forecast APIs:\line
1. WHO DON: outbreak alerts (event intelligence), not a forward forecast product.\line
2. ACAPS and ReliefWeb: situational updates and analysis, mostly narrative and event-based.\line
3. ACLED Conflict Index: structural conflict context index, not a short-horizon forecast API.\line
\line
Conclusion: you requested multi-source forecasts and the implementation already uses multiple forecast-capable sources where machine-readable forecast signals exist. Some sources are inherently alert/reporting sources rather than deterministic forecast feeds.\line
\line
\b 7. Recommended Public URL Rollout\b0\line
1. Pilot public URL (cloud temporary domain) for 1-2 weeks.\line
2. Monitor stability, source freshness, and user feedback daily.\line
3. Move to official WHO-managed domain after governance sign-off.\line
\line
\b 8. Operations After Launch\b0\line
1. Daily: run publish-check and verify source freshness strip.\line
2. Weekly: review data caveats and source accessibility changes.\line
3. Monthly: review forecast-source coverage and add any new machine-readable providers.\line
\line
\b 9. Quick Commands\b0\line
\f1 cd "c:\\Users\\fesli\\OneDrive\\1 Humanitarian\\dashboard-app"\line
.\\publish-check.ps1\line
npm start\line
\f0\line
End of document.\line
}
